# 123

## This project was generated by [Flatlogic generator](https://flatlogic.com/generator).

  - Frontend: [React.js](https://flatlogic.com/templates?framework%5B%5D=react&sort=default)

  - Design: [Material UI](https://flatlogic.com/templates?design%5B%5D=material&sort=default)

  - Backend: [NodeJS](https://flatlogic.com/templates?backend%5B%5D=nodejs&sort=default)

  - Database: PostgreSQL

#### We offer 2 ways how to start the project locally: by running Frontend and Backend or with Docker.

## To start the project:

### Backend:

  ##### Install local dependencies:
  - `yarn install`

  ------------

  ##### Adjust local db:
  ###### 1.  Install postgres:
  - MacOS:
  - `brew install postgres`

    > if you don’t have ‘brew‘ please install it (https://brew.sh) and repeat step `brew install postgres`.

  - Ubuntu:
  - `sudo apt update`
  - `sudo apt install postgresql postgresql-contrib`

  ###### 2. Create db and admin user:
  - Before run and test connection, make sure you have created a database as described in the above configuration. You can use the `psql` command to create a user and database.
  - `psql postgres --u postgres`

  - Next, type this command for creating a new user with password then give access for creating the database.
  - `postgres-# CREATE ROLE admin WITH LOGIN PASSWORD 'admin_pass';`
  - `postgres-# ALTER ROLE admin CREATEDB;`

  - Quit `psql` then log in again using the new user that previously created.
  - `postgres-# \q`
  - `psql postgres -U admin`

  - Type this command to creating a new database.
  - `postgres=> CREATE DATABASE development;`

  - Then give that new user privileges to the new database then quit the `psql`.
  - `postgres=> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE development TO admin;`
  - `postgres=> \q`

  ------------

  ##### Create database:
  - `yarn db:create`

  ##### Start production build:
  - `yarn start`

### Frontend:

## Quick Start

#### 1. Run `yarn install`

This will install both run-time project dependencies and developer tools listed
in [package.json](../project-files/package.json) file.

#### 2. Run `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.

Open http://localhost:3000 to view it in the browser. Whenever you modify any of the source files inside the `/src` folder,
the module bundler ([Webpack](http://webpack.github.io/)) will recompile the
app on the fly and refresh all the connected browsers.

#### 3. Run `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the build folder.
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.
Your app is ready to be deployed!

## To start the project with Docker:
  ## Description:

  The project contains `docker-compose.yml` and a couple of helper scripts:

  - `docker-compose.yml` (all our services: web, backend, db are described here)
  - `start-backend.sh` (starts nodejs app)
  - `wait-for-it.sh` (imported from https://github.com/vishnubob/wait-for-it)

  ## Run services:

  1. Install docker compose (https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

  2. Move to `docker` folder. All next steps should be done from this folder.

     ``` cd docker ```

  3. Make executables from `wait-for-it.sh` and `start-backend.sh`:

     ``` chmod +x start-backend.sh && chmod +x wait-for-it.sh ```

  4. Download dependend projects for services.

  5. Review the docker-compose.yml file. Make sure that all services have Dockerfiles. Only db service doesn't require a Dockerfile. 

  6. Make sure you have needed ports (see them in `ports`) available on your local machine.

  7. Start services:

     7.1. With an empty database `rm -rf data && docker-compose up`

     7.2. With a stored (from previus runs) database data `docker-compose up`

  8. Check http://localhost:3000

  9. Stop services:

     9.1. Just press `Ctr+C`

## Most common errors:  

1. `connection refused`

   There could be many reasons, but the most common are:

   - The port is not open on the destination machine.

   - The port is open on the destination machine, but its backlog of pending connections is full.

   - A firewall between the client and server is blocking access (also check local firewalls). 

   After checking for firewalls and that the port is open, use telnet to connect to the IP/port to test connectivity. This removes any potential issues from your application.

   ***MacOS:*** 

   If you suspect that your SSH service might be down, you can run this command to find out: 

   `sudo service ssh status`

   If the command line returns a status of down, then you’ve likely found the reason behind your connectivity error.

   ***Ubuntu:*** 

   Sometimes a connection refused error can also indicate that there is an IP address conflict on your network. You can search for possible IP conflicts by running:

   `arp-scan -I eth0 -l | grep <ipaddress>`

   `arp-scan -I eth0 -l | grep <ipaddress>`

   and

   `arping <ipaddress>`

2. `yarn db:create` creates database with the assembled tables (on MacOS with Postgres database)

   The workaround - put the next commands to your Postgres database terminal:

   `DROP SCHEMA public CASCADE;`

   `CREATE SCHEMA public;`

   `GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA public TO postgres;`

   `GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA public TO public;`

   Afterwards, continue to start your project in the backend directory by running:

   `yarn start`
